---
title: G10
tags: [G-Commands, Tools] 
keywords: beta 
last_updated: April 02, 2020 
summary: Tool Offset and Temperature Setting 
permalink: G10.html
toc: false 
---


This form of the ` G10 command is recognised by having a P, R or S parameter but no L  ` parameter.

## Usage

* ` G10 Pnnn Xnnn Ynnn Znnn Rnnn  ` Snnn

### Parameters

* `Pnnn` Tool number
* `Xnnn` X offset
* `Ynnn` Y offset
* `U,V,Wnnn` U, V and W axis offsets<sub>1</sub>
* `Znnn` Z offset<sub>2</sub>
* `Rnnn` Standby temperature(s)
* `Snnn` Active temperature(s)

## Order Dependency

If this command refers to any axes other than X, Y and Z then it must appear later in config.g than the ` M584 command that creates those additional  ` axes.

## Examples

* ` G10 P2 X17.8 Y-19.3 Z0.0 ''(sets the offset for tool (or in older implementations extrude head) 2 to the X, Y, and Z values  ` specified)''
* ` G10 P1 R140 S205 ''(set standby and active temperatures for tool  ` 1)''

Remember that any parameter that you don't specify will automatically be set to the last value for that parameter. That usually means that you want explicitly to set Z0.0. RepRapFirmware will report the tool parameters if only the tool number is specified.

The R value is the standby temperature in ^^o^^C that will be used for the tool, and the S value is its operating temperature. If you don't want the tool to be at a different temperature when not in use, set both values the same. See the [[Gcode#Section_T_Select_Tool|T code (select tool]]) below. In tools with multiple heaters the temperatures for them all are specified thus: R100.0:90.0:20.0 S185.0:200.0:150.0 .

Tool offsets are given as the offset of the nozzle relative to the print head reference point, so the signs are opposite to what you might expect because tool offsets are subtracted from the required printing locations during printing.

See also [M585](M585).html.

## Notes

<sub>1</sub>Tool offsets are applied after any X axis mapping has been performed. Therefore if for example you map X to U in your ` M563 command to create the tool, you should specify a U offset not an X offset. If you map X to both X and U, you can specify both  ` offsets.

<sub>2</sub>It's usually a bad idea to put a non-zero Z value in as well unless the tools are loaded and unloaded by some sort of tool changer or are on independent carriages. When all the tools are in the machine at once they should all be positioned at the same Z height to avoid a lower tool colliding with the object while a higher tool is printing.

