---
title: G28
tags: [G-Commands] 
keywords: beta 
last_updated: April 01, 2020 
summary: Home 
permalink: G28.html
toc: false 
---


### Parameters

* ''This command can be used without any additional parameters.''
* `X` Flag to go back to the X axis home position
* `Y` Flag to go back to the Y axis home position
* `Z` Flag to go back to the Z axis home position
* `U` Flag to go back to the U axis home position
* `V` Flag to go back to the V axis home position
* `W` Flag to go back to the W axis home position

## Examples

G28 ; Home all axes

G28 XZ ; Home the X and Z axes

The `X-Z` parameters act only as flags. Any coordinates given are ignored. For example, ` G28 Z10 results in the same behavior as G28 Z. Delta printers cannot home individual axes, but must always home all three towers, so the `X Y Z` parameters are simply ignored if the Firmware is in Delta  ` mode.

When the firmware receives this command the normal behaviour is to moves the specified axes (or all axes if none are given) to the endstops, backs away from each endstop by a short distance, and slowly bumps the endstop again to increase positional accuracy. This process, known as "''Homing''", is required to determine the position of the print carriage(s). These actions are completely configurable using the homing macros.

The macro files used to specify what actions are taken when the ` G28 command  ` are:

*If all axes are homed, the file `homeall.g` is processed.

*For individual axes the `homex.g`, `homey.g`, `homez.g`, `homeu.g`, `homev.g` or `homew.g` file will be used.

*On Delta printers, `G28` command will always home all three towers by processing the `homedelta.g` file, regardless of any `X Y Z` parameters.

Because the behaviour of `G28` can be complex, it is recommended to consider the printer actions carefully before including `G28` in your ending GCode. On a Cartesian or CoreXY it could result in colliding with the printed object. An alternative to move the carriage at the completion of a print is to use `G0` or `G1`.

For Cartesian printers that use a Z probe to home Z instead of an endstop it is sensible to setup the `homeall.g` with the XY axes to home first, then move the carriage to a safe position –usually the middle of the bed– where it can safely probe downward to home Z. For an example see [[ConfiguringRepRapFirmwareCartesianPrinter|Configuring RepRapFirmware for a Cartesian printer]]

