---
title: G2 & G3
tags: [G-Commands] 
keywords: beta 
last_updated: April 02, 2020 
summary: Controlled Arc Move 
permalink: G2G3.html
toc: false 
---


Supported by RRF_1.18 and later.

## Usage

* ` G2 Xnnn Ynnn Znnn Innn Jnnn Ennn Fnnn ''(Clockwise  ` Arc)''
* ` G3 Xnnn Ynnn Znnn Innn Jnnn Ennn Fnnn ''(Counter-Clockwise  ` Arc)''

### Parameters

* `Xnnn` The position to move to on the X axis.
* `Ynnn` The position to move to on the Y axis.
* `Znnn` The position to move to on the Z axis.
* `Innn` The X coordinate of the arc centre `relative to the current X coordinate` (optional, ignored if R parameter is present).
* `Jnnn` The Y coordinate of the arc centre `relative to the current Y coordinate` (optional, ignored if R parameter is present).
* `Ennn` The amount to extrude between the starting point and ending point.
* `Fnnn` The feedrate per minute of the move between the starting point and ending point (optional, defaults to the current feed rate).
* `Rnnn` The radius of the arc (optional, RRF_2.03 and later)

Either the R parameter must be provided, or at least one of I and J must be provided. To draw a complete circle, define the position of the centre using I and/or J and make X and Y the same as the current X and Y coordinates.

## Examples

* ` G2 X90.6 Y13.8 I5 J10 E22.4 ''(Move in a Clockwise arc from the current point to point (X=90.6,Y=13.8), with a center point at (X=current_X+5, Y=current_Y+10), extruding 22.4mm of material between starting and  ` stopping)''
* ` G3 X90.6 Y13.8 I5 J10 E22.4 ''(Move in a Counter-Clockwise arc from the current point to point (X=90.6,Y=13.8), with a center point at (X=current_X+5, Y=current_Y+10), extruding 22.4mm of material between starting and  ` stopping)''
* ` G2 X100 Y50 R200 ''(draw a clockwise arc with radius 200 from the current position to X=100  ` Y=50)''

