---
counter: 16
available_since: version_999
title: G38
tags: [G-Commands] 
keywords: beta 
last_updated: April 10, 2020 
summary: Straight Probe 
permalink: G38.html
toc: false 
---


Supported in RepRapFirmware 3 and later.

### Parameters

* `X,Y,Z,U,V,W,A,B,Cnnn`: Target position
* `Pnnn`: Probe number to use (defaults to current probe)

`Modes`

* `G38.2`: probe toward workpiece, stop on contact, signal error if failure
* `G38.3`: probe toward workpiece, stop on contact
* `G38.4`: probe away from workpiece, stop on loss of contact, signal error if failure
* `G38.5`: probe away from workpiece, stop on loss of contact

`Conditions considered an error` (for ` G38.2 and  ` G38.4)

* Probe already in target state (triggered for ` G38.2 and not triggered for  ` G38.4)
* No target coordinates given
* Target coordinates equal to current position

G38.x Straight Probe will perform a probing move in a straight line with the currently active or selected (`Pnnn`) probe. It will either move towards an obstacle (usually a workpiece) and stop on contact or move away from an obstacle until the probe loses contact.

`Note`: for probing away the probe used does not have to be inverted. This command will take care of that.

Feedrate used for this move is the configured feedrate of the used probe (see `M558 Fnnn`).

#### ` G53 Use absolute coordinates  ` ####

Supported on the Duet 2 and later Duets only.

This causes all coordinates in movement commands on the remainder of the current line of GCode to be interpreted as absolute coordinates, ignoring any coordinate offset of the workplace coordinate system currently in use, and also ignoring any tool offsets. See the NIST GCode Interpreter Version 3 standard for more details.

