---
title: M291
tags: [M-Commands] 
keywords: beta 
last_updated: April 01, 2020 
summary: Display message and optionally wait for response 
permalink: M291.html
toc: false 
---


Supported in firmware version 1.19 and later.

### Parameters

* `P"message"` The message to display, which must be enclosed in double quotation marks. If the message itself contains a double quotation mark, use two double quotation marks to represent it. Max 256 characters.
* `R"message"` Optional title for the message box. Must be enclosed in double quotation marks too. Max 256 characters.
* `Sn` Message box mode (see below), default 1
* `Tn` Timeout in seconds, ignored if S=2 or S=3. The message will be cancelled after this amount of time, if the user does not cancel it before then. A zero or negative value means that the message does not time out (it may still be cancelled by the user if it has a Close button). The default value is 10 seconds (this applies to modes 0 and 1 only).
* `X, Y, Zn` 0 = no special action (default), 1 = display jog buttons alongside the message to allow the user to adjust the head position on the specified axis

This command provides a more flexible alternative to ` M117, in particular messages that time out, messages that suspend execution until the user acknowledges them, and messages that allow the user to adjust the height of the print head before acknowledging  ` them.

Allowed message box modes are:

```

0. No buttons are displayed (non-blocking)
1. Only "Close" is displayed (non-blocking)
2. Only "OK" is displayed (blocking, send ` M292 to resume the  ` execution)
3. "OK" and "Cancel" are displayed (blocking, send ` M292 to resume the execution or M292 P1 to cancel the operation in  ` progress)

```

The combination S0 ` T0 is not permitted, because that would generate a message box with no close button and that never times out, which would  lock up the user  ` interface.

Duet Web Control 2.03 and later support HTML messages but that may not be displayed correctly on an attached PanelDue.

