---
counter: 103
available_since: version_999
title: M308
tags: [M-Commands] 
keywords: beta 
last_updated: April 07, 2020 
summary: Set or report sensor parameters 
permalink: M308.html
toc: false 
---


M308 is supported in RepRapFirmware 3. If running RRF_2.x or earlier, use M305.

`Common Parameters`

* `Sn` Sensor number
* `P"pin_name"` The name of the control board pin that this sensor uses. For thermistors it is the thermistor input pin name. For sensors connected to the SPI bus it is the name of the output pin used as the chip select.
* `Y"sensor_type"` The sensor and interface type, e.g. "thermistor", "pt1000", "rtd-max31865", "thermocouple-max31855", "thermocouple-max31856", "linear-analog", "dht11", "dht21", "dht22", "dhthumidity", "current-loop-pyro", "mcu-temp", "drivers", "drivers-duex"

* `A"name"` Sensor name (optional), displayed in the web interface

`Additional parameters for thermistors`

* `Tnnn` (for thermistor sensors) Thermistor resistance at 25°C
* `Bnnn` Beta value, or the reciprocal of the Steinhart-Hart thermistor model B coefficient
* `Cnnn` Steinhart-Hart C coefficient, default 0
* `Rnnn` Series resistor value
* `Lnnn` ADC low offset correction, default 0 (ignored if the hardware supports automatic ADC gain and offset calibration)
* `Hnnn` ADC high offset correction, default 0 (ignored if the hardware supports automatic ADC gain and offset calibration)

`Additional parameters for PT1000 sensors`

* `Rnnn` Series resistor value
* `Lnnn` ADC low offset correction, default 0 (ignored if the hardware supports automatic ADC gain and offset calibration)
* `Hnnn` ADC high offset correction, default 0 (ignored if the hardware supports automatic ADC gain and offset calibration)

`Additional parameters for MAX31856-based thermocouple sensors`

* `T"c"` The thermistor type letter, default K
* `Fnn` (where nn is 50 or 60) The local mains frequency. Readings will be timed to optimise rejection of interference at this frequency.

`Additional parameters for MAX31865-based PT100 sensors`

* `Rnnn` Series resistor value
* `Fnn` (where nn is 50 or 60) The local mains frequency. Readings will be timed to optimise rejection of interference at this frequency.

`Additional parameters for linear analog sensors`

* `Fn` F0 = unfiltered (fast response), F1 = filtered (slower response, but noise reduced and ADC oversampling used to increase resolution)
* `Lnnn` The temperature or other value when the ADC output is zero
* `Hnnn` The temperature or other value when the ADC output is full scale

`P"nnn" parameter for "dhthumidty"`

Reimplementing DHT support in RepRapFirmware 3 has led to a new concept of additional outputs a sensor can have. With the exception of DHT sensors all other sensors have just a primary output (output number 0). All DHT variants though have - besides their primary output for temperature - a secondary output that delivers the humidity values. "dhthumidity" will be attached to an existing DHT sensor's secondary output by using its full sensor number (including the leading S) and the output's index separated by a dot.

Example:

```

M308 S10 P"0.spi.cs1" Y"dht22"       A"Filament Temp"    ; define DHT22 temperature sensor
M308 S11 P"S10.1"     Y"dhthumidity" A"Filament Hum[%]"  ; Attach DHT22 humidity sensor to secondary output of temperature sensor

```

This code replaces ` M305 in RepRapFirmware 3. In earlier versions of RepRapFirmware, sensors only existed in combination with heaters, which necessitated the concept of a "virtual heater" to represent a sensor with no associated heater (e.g. MCU temperature sensor). RepRapFirmware 3 allows sensors to be defined independently of heaters. The association between heaters and sensors is defined using  ` M950.

M308 can be used in the following ways:

M308 Snn Y"type" [other parameters] ; delete sensor nn if it exists, create a new one with default settings, and configure it using the other parameters. At least the pin name must also be provided, unless the sensor doesn't use a pin (e.g. MCU temperature sensor).

M308 Snn ; report the settings of sensor nn, this will also report the last error on that sensor if applicable

M308 A"name" ; report the settings of the first sensor named "name"

M308 Snn [any other parameters except Y] ; amend the settings of sensor nn

Sensor type names obey the same rules as pin names, i.e. case is not significant, neither are hyphen and underscore characters.

When converting from older versions of RRF to RRF_3 you must replace each ` M305 command by a similar M308 command, which must be earlier in config.g than any M950 command that uses it. You must also use M950 to define each heater that you use, because there are no default  ` heaters.

Example - old code:

```

M305 P0 ` T100000 B3950 ; bed heater uses a B3950  ` thermistor
M305 P1 ` T100000 B4725 C7.06e-8 ; E0 heater uses E3D  ` thermistor

```

New code:

```

M308 S0 P"bed_temp" Y"thermistor" ` T100000 B3950 ; define bed temperature  ` sensor
M308 S1 P"e0_temp" Y"thermistor" ` T100000 B4725 C7.06e-8 ; define E0 temperature  ` sensor
M950 H0 C"bed_heat" ` T0 ; heater 0 uses the bed_heat pin, sensor  ` 0
M950 H1 C"e0_heat" ` T1 ; heater 1 uses the e0_heat pin and sensor  ` 1

```

