---
title: "M550: Set Name" 
tags: [M-Commands, General]
keywords: notes, tips, cautions, warnings, admonitions
last_updated: July 3, 2016
summary: "ToDo Add Summary"
permalink: M550.html
toc: false
---


## Usage ##
```
M550 P"name"
```

### Parameters ###

+ P"nnn" Machine name

## Example ##

+ M550 P"Godzilla"

Sets the name of the printer to (in this case) Godzilla. The name can be any string of printable characters except ';', which still means start comment. The name shows at the top of the DWC page.

## mDNS local network discovery ##

The machine name is also used to allow local network discovery using mDNS. Rather than remembering the ip address of the printer to connect to, or having to find it if assigned by DHCP (mDNS works both with fixed ip address and DHCP), you can use it's name. Using the example name above, in your browser connect to the DWC with:

```
http://Godzilla.local
```

mDNS is supported natively in Windows 10, most Ubuntu distributions, and Mac OS. For older versions of Windows, install Apple's Bonjour Print Services for Windows. If you have installed Skype, Apple’s iTunes or Adobe Photoshop CS3 or later, Bonjour will already have been installed.

Use of mDNS naming also relies on the firmware on the Duet:

+ Duet 2 WiFi - mDNS support in all firmware versions
+ Duet 2 Ethernet, Duet 2 Maestro - mDNS support introduced with firmware v2.04RC3
+ Duet 0.6/0.84 - mDNS support in all versions up to 1.23. mDNS was disabled in legacy Duets from 1.24 due to code quality issues causing reboots, https://forum.duet3d.com/topic/8352/duet...

The machine name is also used as the NetBIOS name, which can help to identify the Duet on a network. This is only supported on Duet 2 WiFi and legacy Duet 0.6/0.85.

Note: Both the mDNS and NetBIOS name are limited to 15 characters. If you use a longer name, the mDNS name will be the first 15 characters, eg if the Duet name is "3DPrinterWithVeryLongName", you should still be able to connect to "3DPrinterWithVe.local".

Quotation marks around the machine name are mandatory in RRF_3, but discretionary in earlier firmware versions.
