---
title: "M558: Set Z probe type" 
tags: [M-Commands, Zprobe]
keywords: notes, tips, cautions, warnings, admonitions
last_updated: July 3, 2016
summary: "ToDo Add Summary"
permalink: M558.html
toc: false
---

?????


## Usage ##

|`M558 Pnnn Fnnn Hnnn Innn Rnnn Tnnn Annn Snnn Cn` |

M558 in RepRapFirmware 2.x and earlier

### Parameters ###

+ `Pnnn` Z probe type
+ `Fnnn` Feed rate (i.e. probing speed, mm/min)
+ `Hnnn` Dive height (mm). When using mesh bed compensation or running G30 commands with specified XY coordinates (for example from the bed.g file), the firmware moves the Z probe to this height above where it expects the bed to be before commencing probing. The maximum depth of probing from this position is twice the dive height. A large dive height will tolerate a very uneven bed or poor calibration. A small dive height will make probing faster, because the Z probe has less distance to travel before reaching the bed. Default value if omitted is 5mm.
+ `Innn` Invert (I1) or do not invert (I0, default) the Z probe reading (RepRapFirmware 1.16 and later)
+ `Rnnn` Z probe recovery time before the probing move is started , default zero (seconds) (RepRapFirmware 1.17 and later). This is to allow the probe to settle after executing a travel move to the coordinates to probe.
+ `Tnnn` Travel speed to and between probe points (mm/min)
+ `Annn` Maximum number of times to probe each point, default 1. Maximum, as of 2.03, is 31. Setting M558 A parameter to anything >31 set it to 0 instead of to 31
+ `Snnn` Tolerance when probing multiple times, default 0.03mm
Bn If 1, turn off all heaters while probing, default (B0) leaves heaters on. (RepRapFirmware 1.21 and later)
+ `Cn` Endstop input number when the probe type is P4, default 3 (RepRapFirmware 2.02/1.23 
and later)

### Obsolete parameters ###

+ `Xnnn` If nonzero, use probe for homing X axis (RRF 1.19 and earlier)
+ `Ynnn` If nonzero, use probe for homing Y axis (RRF 1.19 and earlier)
+ `Znnn` If nonzero, use probe for homing Z axis (RRF 1.19 and earlier)

## Example ##

+ `M558 P1 X0 Y0 Z1 F500 T5000 H3`

The H parameter defines the Z probe dive height, which is the height above the trigger height from which probing starts. The default is 3mm or 5mm depending on firmware version. You may wish to increase it during initial calibration.

A Z probe may be a switch, an IR proximity sensor, or some other device. This selects which to use:

+ P0 indicates that no Z probe is present. Whenever Z probing is commanded, you will be prompted to jog the Z axis until the nozzle is just touching the bed and then signal completion.
+ P1 specifies an unmodulated or smart IR probe, or any other probe type that emulates one (probe output is an analog signal that rises with decreasing nozzle height above the bed). If there is a control signal to the probe, it is driven high when the probe type is P1.
+ P2 specifies a simple modulated IR probe, where the modulation is commanded directly by the main board firmware using the control signal to the probe.
+ P3 is similar to P1 but drives the control signal to the probe low. This may be used to switch between different Z probes.
+ P4 selects a switch for bed probing. In recent firmware versions the C parameter specifies the endstop input number, default 3 (on the Duets this is the E0 endstop input).
+ P5 (from RepRapFirmware 1.14) selects a switch by default (normally closed) for bed probing between the In and Gnd pins of the Z-probe connector (Duet 0.8.5 and Duet 2 WiFi).
+ P6 is as P4 but the switch is connected to an alternative connector (on the Duet series, the E1 endstop connector). Deprecated in recent firmware versions, use P4 C4 instead.
+ P7 (from RepRapFirmware 1.20) selects a switch (by default normally closed) connected to the Z endstop input. Deprecated in recent firmware versions, use P4 C2 instead.
+ P8 (from RepRapFirmware 1.20) is as P5 but is unfiltered, for faster response time.
+ P9 (from RepRapFirmware 1.21RC2) is as P5 but for a BLTouch probe that needs to be retracted and redeployed between probe points.
+ P10 means use Z motor stall detection as the Z probe trigger.

In RepRapFirmware versions 1.20beta4 and earlier, the X, Y and Z parameters specify whether each axis uses the Z probe as a substitute homing switch or not. If the parameter is nonzero, the Z probe is used for homing that axis. If the parameter is zero, the endstop switch for that axis is used for homing instead. In firmware 1.20beta6 and later, use the S parameter in the M574 command instead to indicate whether you are using a homing switch or a Z probe for homing X and Y.

The A and S parameters control multiple probing. Probing is repeated until two consecutive probe attempts produce results that differ by no more than the S parameter; then the average of those two results is used. However, if the number of attempts specified by the A parameter is reached without getting two consecutive results within tolerance of each other, no further probe attempts are made and the average result of all the attempts is used.

Related commands: G29, G30, G31, G32, M401, M402.

## M558 in RepRapFirmware 3 ##

All of the above for RepRapFirmware 2.x relates to RepRapFirmware 3, except the following:

+ New optional parameter K selects the Z probe number. If there is no K parameter then the current Z probe number is used. The current Z probe number is 0 at startup. You can ignore this parameter if you have only one Z probe.
+ New parameter C specifies the input pin and the optional modulation pin. This parameter is mandatory, except for probe type 0 (manual probing) and 10 (Z motor stall detection).
+ Z probe types 4, 6 and 7 are no longer supported. Instead, use type 5 (filtered digital) or 8 (unfiltered digital) and use the C parameter to specify the input. Note, if your Z probe is connected to the Z endstop input, in RRF 3.0 on Duet 2 boards only (not in RRF 3.01 and later, and not in RRF 3.0 on Duet 3), that input is by default pre-assigned to be used by the Z endstop, so you must free it up first.
+ Only one Type 2 probe can be configured, and if using Duet 3 + expansion or tool boards, it must be connected to the Duet 3 main board.
+ The pullup resistor on the Z probe input is not enabled unless you ask for it by prefixing the pin name with the ^ character. Note, BLTouch version 3 and some other types of Z probe need the pullup resistor enabled.
Restrictions on defining more than one Z probe (K parameter) as at RRF 3.01:

+ G29 and G30 commands always used probe 0 and there is no facility to select a different probe
+ Only one Z probe can be type 1,2,3,5 or 9. But you can have multiple type 8 Z probes.
+ All Z probes use the same deployprobe.g and retractprobe.g files

Example 1 - old code: 

```
M558 P4 H5 F120 T3000  ; Z probe connected to E0 endstop input
```

New code: 

```
M558 P5 C"e0stop" H5 F120 T3000  ; Z probe connected to E0 endstop input
```

Example 2 - old code:

```
M558 P7 H5 F120 T3000  ; Z probe connected to Z endstop input
```

New code:

```
M574 Z0 P"nil" ; no Z endstop switch, free up Z endstop input
M558 P5 C"zstop" H5 F120 T3000  ; Z probe connected to Z endstop input
```

Example 3 (BLTouch on Duet Maestro) - old code:

```
M558 P9 H5 F120 T3000  ; BLTouch connected to Z probe IN pin
...
M280 P64 S10 ; send control signal to BLTouch through Z probe MOD pin
```

New code:

```
M558 P9 C"zprobe.in" H5 F120 T3000  ; BLTouch connected to Z probe IN pin, free up MOD pin
M950 S0 C"zprobe.mod" ; servo/gpio 0 is Z probe MOD pin
...
M280 P0 S10 ; send control signal to BLTouch through servo/gpio 0
```

Example 4 (BLTouch on Duet WiFi) - old code:

```
M558 P9 H5 F120 T3000  ; BLTouch connected to Z probe IN pin
M307 H3 A-1 C-1 D-1 ; free up heater 3 to use as BLTouch servo pin
...
M280 P3 S10 I1 ; send control signal to BLTouch through heater 3 pin
```

New code:

```
M558 P9 C"^zprobe.in" H5 F120 T3000  ; BLTouch connected to Z probe IN pin
M950 S0 C"exp.heater3" ; create servo/gpio 0 on heater 3 pin on expansion connector
...
M280 P0 S10 ; send control signal to BLTouch through servo/gpio 0
```
