---
title: M563
tags: [M-Commands] 
keywords: beta 
last_updated: never 
summary: Define or remove a tool 
permalink: M563.html
toc: false 
---


### Parameters

* `Pnnn` Tool number
* `S`"name"'' Tool name (optional)
* `Dnnn` Extruder drive(s)
* `Hnnn` Heater(s)
* `Fnnn` Fan(s) to map fan 0 to (RepRapFirmware 1.16 and later)
* `Xnnn` Axis or axes to map X movement to (RepRapFirmware 1.16 and later)
* `Ynnn` Axis or axes to map Y movement to (RepRapFirmware 1.19 and later)
* `Lnnn` Drive to use for filament mapping. By default RRF will use the first and only extruder drive if this parameter is not specified (supported by RRF >= 2.02)

## Examples

* M563 P0 D0:2:3 H1:3 ; create a tool using extruder drives 0, 2 and 3 and heaters 1 and 3
* M563 P1 D1 H2 X3 ; create a tool using extruder drive 1 and heater 2 with X movement mapped to the U axis
* M563 P2 D0:1 H1:2 X0:3 F0:2 ; create a tool using extruder drives 0 and 1, heaters 1 and 2, with X movement mapped to both X and U axes and fan 0 mapped to fans 0 and 2
* M563 P3 D0 H1 S"Chocolate extruder" ; create a named tool using extruder drive 0 and heater 1

`Description`

Tools are usually (though not necessarily) extruders. Normally an M563 command to define a tool is immediately followed by a G10 command to set the tool's offsets and temperatures.

`P` The 'P' field specifies the tool number. Tool numbers can have any positive integer value and 0. If you use the M563 command with a P value for a tool that has already been defined, and you provide any other parameters, that tool is redefined using the new values you provide.

`D` The 'D' field specifies the drive(s) used by the tool - in the first example drives 0, 2 and 3. Drive 0 is the first drive in the machine after the movement drives (usually X, Y and Z). If there is no 'D' field the tool has no drives. Tools are driven using multiple values in the 'E' field of G1 commands, each controlling the corresponding drive in the 'D' field above, as follows:

[code]
G1 X90.6 Y13.8 E2.24:2.24:15.89
G1 X70.6 E0:0:42.4
[/code]

The first line moves straight to the point (90.6, 13.8) extruding a total of 2.24mm of filament from both drives 0 and 2 and 15.98mm of filament from drive 3. The second line moves back 20mm in X extruding 42.4mm of filament from drive 3.

Alternatively, if the slicer does not support generating G1 commands with multiple values for the extrusion amount, the M567 command can be used to define a tool mix ratio.

The 'D' field number corresponds to the 'E' parameter defined in the M584 command. '0' means first 'E' driver in M584 and so on.

`H` The 'H' field specifies the tool's heaters - in the first example heaters 1 and 3. Heater 0 is usually the hot bed (if any) so the first extruder heater is usually 1. If there is no H field the tool has no heaters.

It is permissible for different tools to share some (or all) of their drives and heaters. So, for example, you can define two tools with identical hardware, but that just operate at different temperatures.

`F` The print cooling fan of the tool, default 0. Use this parameter if you are not using fan 0 as the print cooling fan for the tool you are defining.

""Example""

To map more than one fan to the tool, the definition would typically look like this :

M563 P0 D0 H1 F0:1 ; tool 0 uses extruder drive 0 and heater 1. Fan 0 and Fan 1 are mapped to tool 0

`X, Y` The X and Y mapping option is used to create tools on machines with multiple independent X and/or Y carriages. The additional carriages are set up as axes U, V etc. (see M584) and the X mapping option in M563 defines which carriage or carriages are used. Axes are mapped in the order XYZUVWABC, where X=0, Y=1, Z=2, U=3 etc, not by driver number.

`S` As shown in the example above the S parameter can be used to give a tool a name.

RepRapFirmware supports an additional form of the M563 command. The command:

[code]M563 S1[/code]

means add 1 (the value of the S parameter) to all tool numbers found in the remainder of the current input stream (e.g. the current file if the command is read from a file on the SD card), or until a new M563 command of this form is executed. The purpose of this is to provide compatibility between systems in which tool numbers start at 1, and programs such as slic3r that assume tools are numbered from zero.

`Note:` M563 with just a P parameter just reports the existing configuration of the tool. Therefore, if you want to create a tool with no heaters and no extruders, you must provide at least one other parameter. For example, you can use the S parameter to name the tool.

RepRapFirmware allows the deletion of existing tools if M563 is called in this way:

[code]M563 P1 D-1 H-1[/code]

