---
title: "M569: Set motor driver direction, enable polarity and step pulse timing" 
tags: [M-Commands, Drives]
keywords: notes, tips, cautions, warnings, admonitions
last_updated: July 3, 2016
summary: "ToDo Add Summary"
permalink: M569.html
toc: false
---

## Usage ##
```
M569 Pnnn Snnn Rnnn Tnnn Taa:bb:cc:dd Dnn Fnn Cnnnn Bnn Hnn Yaa:bb Vnnn
```

### Parameters ###

+ Pnnn Motor driver number
+ Snnn Direction of movement of the motor(s) attached to this driver: 0 = backwards, 1 = forwards (default 1)
+ Rnnn Driver enable polarity: 0 = active low, 1 = active high, -1 = driver is always disabled and is not monitored (default 0)
+ Tnnn (firmware 1.14 and later) Minimum driver step pulse width and interval in microseconds
+ Taa:bb:cc:dd (firmware 1.21 and later) Minimum driver step pulse width, step pulse interval, direction setup time and direction hold time, in microseconds
+ Dnn (firmware 2.0 and later, only applies to TMC2660, TMC22xx, TMC2160, TMC5160 and TMC5161 stepper drivers) Driver mode: 0=constant off time, 1=random off time, 2=spread cycle, 3=stealthChop or stealthChop2 (mode 3 for TMC22xx/TMC2160/TMC516x only). The default is spreadCycle for TMC2660, TMC2160 and TMC516a drivers, and stealthChop2 for TMC22xx. In stealthChop mode the drivers will switch over to spreadCycle automatically at high speeds, see the V parameter.
+ Fnn (firmware 2.02 and later) Off-time in the chopper control register, 1 to 15
+ Cnnnn (firmware 2.0 and later, only applies to TMC2660 and TMC22xx stepper drivers) Lowest 17 bits of the chopper control register value.
+ Bnn (firmware 2.02RC1 and later) Blanking time (tbl) in the chopper control register, 0 to 3. See the TMC driver datasheet.
+ Hnn (firmware 2.02RC2 and later) thigh parameter for those stepper driver chips that support it. Send M569 P# (where # is the driver number) with no additional parameters to see how this translates into mm/sec. See also the V parameter.
+ Yaa:bb or Yaa:bb:cc (firmware 2.02RC2 and later) Hysteresis start, end and decrement values in the chopper control register. See the TMC driver datasheet for the meaning.
+ Vnnn (firmware 2.02RC1 and later) tpwmthrs parameter for those stepper driver chips that support it. This is the interval in clock cycles between 1/256 microsteps below which the drivers will switch from stealthChop to to spreadCycle mode. Only applies when the driver is configured in stealthChop mode. Typical value are from 100 (high speed) to 4000 (low speed). Send M569 P# (where # is the driver number) with no additional parameters to see how this translates into mm/sec.

## Examples ##

+ M569 P0 S0 ; reverse the direction of the motor attached to driver 0
+ M569 P5 R1 T2.5:2.5:5:0 ; driver 5 requires an active high enable, 2.5us minimum step pulse, 2.5us minimum step interval, 5us DIR setup time and no hold time

## Notes ##

If no T parameter is given, then the step pulse width and interval are guaranteed to be suitable for the on-board drivers only. RepRapFirmware only remembers the highest T parameters seen in any M569 command, and applies that value to all drivers for which any nonzero T parameter was specified. Therefore if you reduce the T parameters, you must restart the firmware for the change to take effect.

Some versions of RepRapFirmware prior to 1.14 also provided XYZ and E parameters to allow the mapping from axes and extruders to stepper driver numbers to be changed. From 1.14 onward, this functionality is provided by M584 instead.

