---
title: "M570: Configure heater fault detection" 
tags: [M-Commands]
keywords: notes, tips, cautions, warnings, admonitions
last_updated: July 3, 2016
summary: "ToDo Add Summary"
permalink: M570.html
toc: false
---


## Usage ##

| `M570 Snnn (RRF 1.14 and earlier)` }| 
| `M570 Hnnn Pnnn Tnnn Snnn` | 

### Parameters for RepRapFirmware 1.14 and earlier ###

+ `Snnn` Heater timeout (in seconds)

## Example

+ `M570 S120`

After a heater has been switched on, wait 120 seconds for it to get close to the set temperature. If it takes longer than this, raise a heater fault.

### Parameters for RepRapFirmware 1.15e and later ###

+ `Hnnn` Heater number
+ `Pnnn` Time in seconds for which a temperature anomaly must persist on this heater before raising a heater fault (default 5 seconds)
+ `Tnnn` Permitted temperature excursion from the setpoint for this heater (default 15C)
+ `Snnn` Integer timeout in minutes (can be set to 0) for print to be cancelled after heater fault (Firmware 1.20 and later).

## Order dependency ##

When using RepRapFirmware 3 the M570 command must come later in config,g than the M950 command that creates the heater specified in the H parameter.

## Example ##
 
+ `M570 H1 P4 T15`

Warning! Heating fault detection is provided to reduce the risk of starting a fire if a dangerous fault occurs, for example if the heater cartridge or thermistor falls out of the heater block. You should carefully consider sensible values for the detection time or permitted temperature excursion, setting them to incorrectly will reduce the protection. Also note that this protection should not be relied upon exclusively. Protection against fire should be provided external to the operation of the firmware as well (fuses, fire detection, do not print unattended etc)
