---
title: M571
tags: [M-Commands] 
keywords: beta 
last_updated: April 02, 2020 
summary: Set output on extrude 
permalink: M571.html
toc: false 
---


### Parameters

* `Snnn` Output value
* `Fnnn` Output PWM frequency (RepRapFirmware 1.17 and later)
* `Pnnn` [RepRapFirmware 1 and 2] Logical pin number (RepRapFirmware 1.17), defaults to the FAN0 output in firmware 1.19 and earlier until ` M571 with a P parameter has been  ` seen
* `P"pin-name"` [RepRapFirmware 3] Name of the pin to use

## Examples

* ` M571 P3 F200 S1   ; turn on logical pin 3 while extrusion is commanded (RRF  ` 2)
* ` M571 P"heater3" S0.5 ; turn on heater 3 output at 50% PWSM while extrusion is commanded (RRF  ` 3)

This turns the controlled pin output on whenever extrusion is being done, and turns it off when the extrusion is finished. The output could control a fan or a stirrer or anything else that needs to work just when extrusion is happening. It also can be used to control a laser beam. The S parameter sets the value of the PWM to the output. 0.0 is off; 1.0 is fully on.

In RepRapFirmware 1.17 and later you can use the P parameter to change the pin used and you can also set the PWM frequency. For RepRapFirmware 1.x and 2.x, pin numbers are the same as in the ` M42 and M280 commands. The pin you specify must not be in use for anything else, so if it is normally used as a heater you must disable the heater first using M307, or if it is used for a fan you must disable the fan using M106 with the I-1 parameter. In RepRapFirmware 3 you specify the pin name  ` instead.

RepRapFirmware 1.20 and later do not default to using the FAN0 output, so you must send ` M571 with a P parameter at least once to define the pin that you wish to  ` use.

