---
title: "M587: Add WiFi host network to remembered list, or list remembered networks" 
tags: [M-Commands, Network]
keywords: notes, tips, cautions, warnings, admonitions
last_updated: July 3, 2016
summary: "ToDo Add Summary"
permalink: M587.html
toc: false
---


{{site.data.alerts.note}}
This command must not be used in the config.g file
{{site.data.alerts.end}}



## Usage ##
```
M587 S"ccc" P"ccc" Inn.nn.nn.nn Jnn.nn.nn.nn Knn.nn.nn.nn
```

### Parameters ###

+ S"ccc" Network SSID
+ P"ccc" Network password
+ Inn.nn.nn.nn (optional) IP address to use when connected to this network. If zero or not specified then an IP address will be acquired via DHCP.
+ Jnn.nn.nn.nn (optional) Gateway IP address to use when connected to this network.
+ Knn.nn.nn.nn (optional) Netmask to use when connected to this network

The SSID and password must always be enclosed in double quotation marks.

## Notes ##

Many programs used to send GCodes convert all characters to uppercase. In firmware 1.19.2 and later, within any quoted string you can use a single-quote character to indicate that the following character should be changed to lowercase. For example, M587 S"ABC" P"P'A'S'SW'O'R'D" would specify that the password is "PassWord". Use two single quote characters to represent one actual single quote character in the password or in the SSID. For example, if your SSID is "Pete's network" then enter "Pete''s network".

M587 with no parameters lists all the remembered SSIDs, but not the remembered passwords.

The M587 command will fail if the WiFi module has not yet been taken out of reset. So if the WiFi module has not been started, send M552 S0 to put it in idle mode first.

Important! Do not use M587 within config.g. As well as being a security hazard, writing the access point parameters to WiFi chip every time you start the Duet may eventually wear out the flash memory. Also, the wifi module does not get enabled until the end of running config.g. It is better to use a macro to send M587 (source: https://forum.duet3d.com/post/42798)

