---
title: "M593: Configure Dynamic Acceleration Adjustment" 
tags: [M-Commands]
keywords: notes, tips, cautions, warnings, admonitions
last_updated: July 3, 2016
summary: "ToDo Add Summary"
permalink: M593.html
toc: false
---


## Usage ##

| `M593 Fnnn Lnnn` |

### Parameters ###

+ `Fnnn` Frequency of ringing to cancel in Hz. Zero or negative values disable the feature.
+ `Lnnn` Minimum acceleration allowed. The current default is 10mm/sec^2. It is unlikely that you will need to change this value.

## Example ##

+ `M593 F40.5` Cancel ringing at 40.5Hz

Supported in firmware 2.02 and later. By default, Dynamic Acceleration Adjustment (DAA) is disabled. If it is enabled, then acceleration and deceleration rates will be adjusted per-move to cancel out ringing at the specified frequency. Acceleration limits set by M201 and M204 will still be honoured when DAA is enabled, so DAA will only ever reduce acceleration. Therefore your M201 and M204 limits must be high enough so that DAA can reduce the acceleration to the optimum value.

DAA is most useful to avoid exciting low-frequency ringing, for which S-curve acceleration is ineffective and may make the ringing worse. High-frequency ringing would be better countered by using S-curve acceleration.

To measure the ringing frequency, take a print that exhibits ringing on the perimeters (for example a cube), preferably printed single-wall or external-perimeters-first. Divide the speed at which the outer perimeter was printed (in mm/sec) by the distance between adjacent ringing peaks (in mm). When measuring the distance between peaks, ignore peaks close to the corner where the ringing started (these peaks will be spaced more closely) because the print head will have been accelerating in that area.

Cartesian and CoreXY printers will typically have different frequencies of ringing for the X and Y axes. In this case it is is usually best to aim to cancel the lower ringing frequency. If the frequencies are not much different, in a moving-bed cartesian printer you can reduce the higher ringing frequency by adding mass to that axis or reducing belt tension on that axis. Note that X axis ringing causes artefacts predominantly on the Y face of the test cube, and vice versa.
