---
title: M669
tags: [M-Commands] 
keywords: beta 
last_updated: March 30, 2020 
summary: Set kinematics type and kinematics parameters 
permalink: M669.html
toc: false 
---


### Parameters

* `Knnn` Kinematics type: 0 = Cartesian, 1 = CoreXY, 2 = CoreXZ, 3 = linear delta, 4 = serial SCARA, 5 = CoreXYU, 6 = Hangprinter, 7 = polar, 8 = CoreXYUV, 9 = five-bar parallel SCARA (in RRF 3.01, experimental), 10 = rotary delta, 11 = Mark Forged, 12 = reserved for Collinear Tripteron

Note: RepRapFirmware 2.03 and later can support any kinematics for which the movement of each axis is a linear combination of the movement of the motors. The relationship between axis movement and motor movement is defined by a matrix. So K0, K1, K2, K5, K8 and K11 all select the same kinematics, but with different default matrices.

## Order Dependency

* M669 must come earlier in config.g than any M671 command.

Selects the specified kinematics, then uses the other parameters to configure it. If the K parameter is missing then the other parameters are used to update the configuration data for the current kinematics. If no parameters are given then the current kinematics and configuration parameters will be reported.

## Parameters for Cartesian/CoreXY/CoreXZ/CoreXYU/CoreXYUV/MarkForged kinematics (RRF 2.03 and later only) 

* `Xnn:nn:nn...` Motor movement coefficients required to move X axis (first row of matrix)
* `Ynn:nn:nn...` Motor movement coefficients required to move Y axis (second row of matrix)
* `Znn:nn:nn...` Motor movement coefficients required to move Z axis (third row of matrix)
* `Unn:nn:nn..., Vnn:nn:nn... etc.` Motor movement coefficients required to move U, V... axes (fourth and subsequent rows of matrix)

All these parameters are optional. The movement coefficient matrices are initialised to suitable value for the kinematics type you selected in the M667 or M669 command, but you can modify them using these parameters. If you send M669 with no parameters, the existing matrix will be reported.

## Examples

```

M669
Kinematics is Cartesian, matrix:
1.00 0 0
0 1.00 0
0 0 1.00

```

CoreXY with extra Markforge U axis (see https://forum.duet3d.com/post/136554 )

```
M669 K1 X1:1:0:0 Y1:-1:0:-1 Z0:0:1:0 U0:0:0:1
```

Note U motor values in X, Y, Z and U parameters come after the Z motor values. M669 reports:

```

M669
Kinematics is modified CoreXY, matrix:
1.00 1.00 0 0
1.00 -1.00 0 -1.00
0 0 1.00 0
0 0 0 1.00

```

## Parameters for Linear Delta kinematics (RRF 2.03 and later only) 

* `Xnn:nn:nn...` Extruder offset from nozzle in X
* `Ynn:nn:nn...` Extruder offset from nozzle in X

This is used when a 4th axis is added to a linear Delta, to carry the extruder and follow in Z. It specifies the XY offsets of the extruder outputs on additional towers, relative to machine centre in the M669 command. See [[ConfiguringRepRapFirmwareDeltaPrinter#Section_Adding_additional_towers_to_carry_flying_extruders]]

## Parameters for serial SCARA kinematics 

* `Pnnn` Proximal arm length (mm)
* `Dnnn` Distal arm length (mm)
* `Annn:nnn` Proximal arm joint movement minimum and maximum angles, in degrees anticlockwise seen from above relative to the X axis 
* `Bnnn:nnn` Proximal-to-distal arm joint movement minimum and maximum angles, in degrees anticlockwise seen from above relative to both arms in line
* `Cnnn:nnn:nnn` Crosstalk factors. The first component is the proximal motor steps to equivalent distal steps factor, the second is the proximal motor steps to equivalent Z motor steps factor, and the third component is the distal motor steps to equivalent Z motor steps factor.
* `Rnnn` (optional, RRF 2.03 and later only) Minimum permitted printing radius from the proximal axis. If not specified, it will be calculated to be slightly larger than the distance between nozzle and proximal axis when the distal axis is homed.
* `Snnn` Segments per second (because smooth XY motion is approximated by means of segmentation)
* `Tnnn` Minimum segment length (mm) (because smooth XY motion is approximated by means of segmentation)
* `Xnnn` X offset of bed origin from proximal joint
* `Ynnn` Y offset of bed origin from proximal joint

## Examples

```
M669 K4 P300 D250 A-90:90 B-135:135 C0:0:0 S100 X300 Y0
```

The minimum and maximum arm angles are also the arm angles assumed by the firmware when the homing switches are triggered. The P, D, A and B parameters are mandatory. The C, X and Y parameters default to zero, and the segmentation parameters default to firmware-dependent values.

## Parameters for Polar kinematics 

* `Annn` Maximum turntable acceleration in degrees per second^2
* `Fnnn` Maximum turntable speed in degrees per second
* `Hnnn` Radius of the nozzle from the centre of the turntable when the radius arm homing switch is triggered
* `Raaa:bbb` Minimum (aaa) and maximum (bbb) radius on the turntable reachable by the nozzle.
* `Snnn` Segments per second (because smooth XY motion is approximated by means of segmentation)
* `Tnnn` Minimum segment length (mm) (because smooth XY motion is approximated by means of segmentation)
* `Xnnn` X offset of bed origin from turntable centre (not yet implemented)
* `Ynnn` Y offset of bed origin from proximal joint (not yet implemented)

There is currently no facility for offsetting the radius arm sideways from the centre of rotation of the turntable, or for moving the origin.

