---
title: M950
tags: [M-Commands] 
keywords: beta 
last_updated: April 04, 2020 
summary: Create heater, fan or GPIO/servo pin 
permalink: M950.html
toc: false 
---


Supported in RepRapFirmware 3.

M950 is used to create heaters, fans and GPIO ports and to assign pins to them. Each ` M950 command assigns a pin or pins to a single device. So every M950 command must have `exactly one` of the H, F, J, P or S  ` parameters.

If a ` M950 command has C and/or Q parameters, then the pin allocation and/or frequency will be configured accordingly. Otherwise, the current configuration will be  ` reported.

Parameters:

* `Hnn` Heater number
* `Fnn` Fan number
* `Jnn` Input pin number (RRF 3.01RC2 and later only)
* `Pnn` or` Snn` Output/servo pin number (the only difference is the default PWM frequency)
* `C"name"` Pin name(s) and optional inversion status. Pin name "nil" frees up the pin. A leading '!' character inverts the input or output. A leading '^' character enables the pullup resistor. The '^' and '!' characters may be placed in either order.
* `Qnn` PWM frequency in Hz (optional)
* `T` Temperature sensor number, required only when creating a heater. See M308.

## Order Dependency

* When ` M950 is used to create a heater, the M950 command must come later in config.g than the M308 command that creates the sensor referred to in the T  ` parameter
* ` M950 must come before any commands that refer to the device being created. For example, when M950 is used to create a heater, it must be earlier than the M307 command used to set the heater parameters, and earlier than any M563 commands that create tools that use that heater. When M106 is used to create a fan, it must come earlier than any M106 commands relating to that  ` fan.

Examples:

```

M950 H1 C"out1" Q100 ` T1 ; create heater  ` 1
M950 H2 C"nil" ; disable heater 2 and free up the associated pin
M950 F3 C"heater2" Q100 ; Fan 3 is connected to heater 2 pin, PWM at 100Hz
M950 P0 C"exp.heater3" ; create output/servo port 0 attached to heater 3 pin on expansion connector
M950 F2 C"!fan2+^pb6" ; Fan 2 uses the Fan2 output, but we are using a PWM fan so the output needs to be inverted, also we are using PB6 as a tacho input with pullup resistor enabled
M950 J1 C"!^e3stop" ; Input 1 uses e0Stop pin, inverted, pullup enabled

```

