---
counter: 176
title: M671
tags: [M-Commands] 
keywords: beta 
last_updated: April 05, 2020 
summary: Define positions of Z leadscrews or bed levelling screws 
permalink: M671.html
toc: false 
---


### Parameters

* `Xnn:nn:nn...` List of between 2 and 4 X coordinates of the leadscrews that drive the Z axis or the bed levelling screws
* `Ynn:nn:nn...` List of between 2 and 4 Y coordinates of the leadscrews that drive the Z axis or the bed levelling screws
* `Snn` Maximum correction to apply to each leadscrew in mm (optional, default 1.0)
* `Pnnn` Pitch of the bed levelling screws (not used when bed levelling using independently-driven leadscrews). Defaults to 0.5mm which is correct for ` M3 bed levelling  ` screws.
* `Fnn` Fudge factor, default 1.0

## Order Dependency

* ` M671 must come later in config.g than any M667 or M669  ` command.

## Examples

* ` M671 X-15.0:100.0:215.0 Y220.0:-20.0:220.0 ; Z leadscrews are at (-15,220), (100,-20) and  ` (215,220)

Informs the firmware of the positions of the leadscrews used to raise/lower the bed or gantry. When this command is used to define the leadscrew positions, the numbers of X and Y coordinates must both be equal to the number of drivers used for the Z axis (see the ` M584 command). This allows the firmware to perform bed levelling by adjusting the leadscrew motors individually after bed probing. See the G32  ` command.

For machines without multiple independently-driven Z leadscrews, this command can also be used to define the positions of the bed levelling screws instead. Then bed probing can be used to calculate and display the adjustment required to each screw to level the bed. The thread pitch (P parameter) is used to translate the height adjustment needed to the number of turns of the levelling screws.

For printers that print directly onto a desktop and have levelling feet, this command can be used to define the coordinates of the levelling feet, so that bed probing can be used to calculate and display the adjustments needed to the feet. In this case the displayed corrections must be reversed. For example, "0.2 turn down" means the bed needs to be lowered or the printer raised by 0.2 turn lower at that screw position.

The firmware algorithm assumes perfect gimbal joints between the bed and the leadscrews, so that the bed is completely free to adopt the plane (or the twisted plane if there are 4 leadscrews) defined by the leadscrews. In real printers this is rarely the case and the corrections are insufficient to level the bed, so multiple ` G32 commands need to be sent if the bed is a long way off level. The F parameter allows for the corrections calculated by the firmware to be multiplied by a factor so as to achieve faster convergence in this  ` situation.

Note: the ` M671 command in config.g must come after any command to change the kinematics, for example M667 or  ` M669.

