---
layout: archive
description: blablabla
tags: gcode
sidebar:
  title: "Sample Title"
  nav: sidebar-sample
---

# G10: Tool Offset and Temperature Setting #
***

This form of the G10 command is recognised by having a P, R or S parameter but no L parameter.

## Usage ##

```
G10 Pnnn Xnnn Ynnn Znnn Rnnn Snnn
```

## Parameters ##

+ Pnnn Tool number
+ Xnnn X offset
+ Ynnn Y offset
+ U,V,Wnnn U, V and W axis offsets1
+ Znnn Z offset2
+ Rnnn Standby temperature(s)
+ Snnn Active temperature(s)

## Order dependency ##

If this command refers to any axes other than X, Y and Z then it must appear later in config.g than the M584 command that creates those additional axes.

## Examples: ##

+ G10 P2 X17.8 Y-19.3 Z0.0 (sets the offset for tool (or in older implementations extrude head) 2 to the X, Y, and Z values specified)
+ G10 P1 R140 S205 (set standby and active temperatures for tool 1)
Remember that any parameter that you don't specify will automatically be set to the last value for that parameter. That usually means that you want explicitly to set Z0.0. RepRapFirmware will report the tool parameters if only the tool number is specified.

The R value is the standby temperature in oC that will be used for the tool, and the S value is its operating temperature. If you don't want the tool to be at a different temperature when not in use, set both values the same. See the T code (select tool) below. In tools with multiple heaters the temperatures for them all are specified thus: R100.0:90.0:20.0 S185.0:200.0:150.0 .

Tool offsets are given as the offset of the nozzle relative to the print head reference point, so the signs are opposite to what you might expect because tool offsets are subtracted from the required printing locations during printing.

See also M585.

Notes

1Tool offsets are applied after any X axis mapping has been performed. Therefore if for example you map X to U in your M563 command to create the tool, you should specify a U offset not an X offset. If you map X to both X and U, you can specify both offsets.

2It's usually a bad idea to put a non-zero Z value in as well unless the tools are loaded and unloaded by some sort of tool changer or are on independent carriages. When all the tools are in the machine at once they should all be positioned at the same Z height to avoid a lower tool colliding with the object while a higher tool is printing.

# G10: Set workplace coordinate offset or tool offset #
This form of the G10 command is recognised by having the L parameter. Supported on the Duet 2 series and later Duets.

## Parameters ##

+ Ln Mode (see below)
+ Pnnn Tool number if L=1, coordinate system number if L=2 or L=20
+ X,Y,Z,U,V... Offsets

## Modes ##

+ L=1: this sets the tool offset, as if the L parameter was not present
+ L=2: this sets the origin of the coordinate system number specified by the P parameter (1 to 9) to the specified X, Y, X... values
+ L=20: this is similar to L=2 except that the origin is specified relative to the current position of the tool.

## Example ##

Suppose the current machine coordinates are

+ X=110
+ Y=110
+ Z=20
and you want to make this the origin (i.e. X=0, Y=0, Z=0) of the second coordinate system (accessible via G55) then there are two options:

G10 L2 P2 X110 Y110 Z20
G10 L20 P2 X0 Y0 Z0
The first example will set offsets to be subtracted from the current machine coordinates.

The second example will set the coordinates of the current position in the specified coordinate system directly.

## Order dependency ##

If this command refers to any axes other than X, Y and Z then it must appear later in config.g than the M584 command that creates those additional axes.

# G10: Retract #
This form of the G10 command is recognised by having no parameters.

## Parameters ##

(no parameters in the RepRapFirmware implementation)
Example

G10
Retracts filament according to settings of M207.

RepRapFirmware recognizes G10 as a command to set tool offsets and/or temperatures if the P parameter is present, and as a retraction command if it is absent.

